# General

## _enum_ vs _const enum_

```ts
export enum ETaskStatus {
  OPEN = 'OPEN',
  IN_PROGRESS = 'IN_PROGRESS',
  DONE = 'DONE',
}

expor const t enum ETaskStatus {
  OPEN = 'OPEN',
  IN_PROGRESS = 'IN_PROGRESS',
  DONE = 'DONE',
}
```

**_Enum Declaration (enum):_**

In the first snippet, we're defining an enum with named values. This means that ETaskStatus.OPEN would have a value of 'OPEN', ETaskStatus.IN_PROGRESS would have a value of 'IN_PROGRESS', and so on. Enums can be used both for runtime and type-level information.

**_Const Enum Declaration (const enum):_**

In the second snippet, by using const enum, we're indicating to the TypeScript compiler that we want the enum values to be inlined at compile time. This can have performance benefits by eliminating runtime enum objects, but it comes at a cost: the enum values are not available at runtime. They are replaced with their actual values during compilation. This means we can't use ETaskStatus.OPEN to access the value 'OPEN' at runtime; the enum values are only available at compile time.

> So, if we need the enum values to be available at runtime, we should go with the regular enum declaration. If we're concerned about runtime performance and don't need the enum values at runtime, we could use the const enum declaration.

## DTO vs ENTITY

```
src/
└── user/
    ├── dto/
    │   ├── create-user.dto.ts
    │   ├── update-user.dto.ts
    │   └── ...
    ├── entity/
    │   └── user.entity.ts
    ├── user.controller.ts
    ├── user.service.ts
    └── user.module.ts
```

**_DTOs_**:

It stands for `data transfer object`. It defines the structure of data for communication over the network. They help with validation and data transformation during API interactions.

**_Entities_**:

Define the structure of data for database storage and retrieval. They are used with ORM libraries to interact with the database in an object-oriented way.

> In general for naming convention noSQL db use schema and SQL db use entity, although they share same concept

---

<center>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [🏠](../../README.md)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [\*](./miscellaneous.md) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [➡️](./*class-validator.md)

</center>
